Monitoring overview (#41356)
openshift/openshift-docs: monitoring/monitoring-overview.adoc

:_content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="monitoring-overview"]
= Monitoring overview
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: monitoring-overview

toc::[]

> [id="about-openshift-container-platform-monitoring"]

Reviewer: You could update this ID to be distribution agnostic, such as "about-openshift-monitoring". There could be use cases where this is reused in the future for OpenShift distributions other than OCP.

> == About {product-title} Container Platform monitoring

Reviewer: This title renders as "About OpenShift Container Platform Container Platform monitoring". You can remove "Container Platform" from the title, because `{product-title}` resolves to "OpenShift Container Platform" when built as part of the OCP distribution. This will also prevent other distributions from having "Container Platform" appended to the product name if this title is used.

Author: oops my mistake Thanks @pneedle-rh

> {product-title} includes a pre-configured, pre-installed, and self-updating monitoring stack that provides *monitoring for core platform components*. A cluster administrator can xref:../monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc#configuring-the-monitoring-stack[configure the monitoring stack] with the supported configurations. You also have the option to enable xref:../monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc#enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects[monitoring for user-defined projects]. {product-title} delivers monitoring best practices out of the box. A set of alerts are included by default that immediately notify cluster administrators about issues with a cluster. Default dashboards in the {product-title} web console include visual representations of cluster metrics to help you to quickly understand the state of your cluster.

Reviewer: The sentence, "A cluster administrator can xref:../monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc#configuring-the-monitoring-stack[configure the monitoring stack] with the supported configurations" could come after "A cluster administrator can xref:../monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc#configuring-the-monitoring-stack[configure the monitoring stack] with the supported configurations." I am suggesting that because the page on configuring the monitoring stack relates to the core OpenShift monitoring components as well as monitoring for user-defined projects.

Reviewer: You could remove the bold weighting from "monitoring for core platform components". With the changes in this PR, "monitoring for user-defined projects" is no longer bold, because it is now a link. My view is that having only one of these in bold does not add value when scanning the section.

Reviewer: You could change "enable xref:../monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc#enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects[monitoring for user-defined projects]" to "xref:../monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc#enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects[enable monitoring for user-defined projects]", so that "enable" is part of the link.

Author: @pneedle-rh

Reviewer: Ah yes, my apologies. My suggestion is that you could restructure those sentences as follows:

> {product-title}` includes a pre-configured, pre-installed, and self-updating monitoring stack that provides *monitoring for core platform components*. You also have the option to enable xref:../monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc#enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects. A cluster administrator can xref:../monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc#configuring-the-monitoring-stack[configure the monitoring stack] with the supported configurations.

> {product-title} includes a pre-configured, pre-installed, and self-updating monitoring stack that provides *monitoring for core platform components*. A cluster administrator can xref:../monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc#configuring-the-monitoring-stack[configure the monitoring stack] with the supported configurations. You also have the option to enable xref:../monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc#enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects[monitoring for user-defined projects]. {product-title} delivers monitoring best practices out of the box. A set of alerts are included by default that immediately notify cluster administrators about issues with a cluster. Default dashboards in the {product-title} web console include visual representations of cluster metrics to help you to quickly understand the state of your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{product-title} includes a preconfigured, preinstalled, and self-updating monitoring stack that provides *monitoring for core platform components*. A cluster administrator can xref:../monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc#configuring-the-monitoring-stack[configure the monitoring stack] with the supported configurations. You also have the option to enable xref:../monitoring/enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects.adoc#enabling-monitoring-for-user-defined-projects[monitoring for user-defined projects]. {product-title} delivers monitoring best practices out of the box. A set of alerts are included by default that immediately notify cluster administrators about issues with a cluster. Default dashboards in the {product-title} web console include visual representations of cluster metrics to help you to quickly understand the state of your cluster.
```

> The {product-title} web console provides xref:../monitoring/accessing-third-party-uis.adoc#accessing-third-party-uis[third-party integrated UIs] such as metrics, alerts, and review of monitoring dashboards. You can access these third-party user interfaces (UIs) either through the web console or the CLI. You can use the **Administrator** or ** Developer** perspective in the {product-title} monitoring dashboard to perform the following tasks:

Reviewer: At the moment, this line and the preceding one make up one paragraph. You could break them up into multiple paragraphs to help readers scan the content. For example, you could have:

* An initial paragraph that introduces the stack and the differentiation between core monitoring and monitoring for user-defined projects
* A second paragraph that introduces alerts, dashboards and metrics
* A third paragraph that introduces the third party UIs

Reviewer: You could potentially remove the "You can use the **Administrator** or ** Developer** perspective" aspect of this line to help minimise the content.

Reviewer 2: +1

> * xref:../monitoring/managing-metrics.adoc#managing-metrics[Manage metrics]

Reviewer: You could potentially integrate this cross references into the lines that introduce metrics, alerts and dashboards. This would be consistent with the other links in the section to the assemblies in the Monitoring book, which are not in a bulleted format.

Author: I was in two minds, whether to create a bullet list so it's structured or to keep consistency with existing content. I will go with your suggestion

* xref:../monitoring/managing-alerts.adoc#managing-alerts[Manage alerts]
* xref:../monitoring/reviewing-monitoring-dashboards.adoc#reviewing-monitoring-dashboards[Review monitoring dashboards]

// Understanding the monitoring stack

> include::modules/monitoring-understanding-the-monitoring-stack.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Reviewer 3: the name monitoring-understanding-the-monitoring-stack is a bit confusing

Reviewer: @lihongyan1 hi! Thank you for your feedback on this. In the past we prepended modules that related to monitoring with "monitoring" so that they could be easily identified.

Reviewer: The sentence, "A cluster administrator can xref:../monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc#configuring-the-monitoring-stack[configure the monitoring stack] with the supported configurations" could come after "A cluster administrator can xref:../monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc#configuring-the-monitoring-stack[configure the monitoring stack] with the supported configurations." I am suggesting that because the page on configuring the monitoring stack relates to the core OpenShift monitoring components as well as monitoring for user-defined projects.

Reviewer: You could remove the bold weighting from "monitoring for core platform components". With the changes in this PR, "monitoring for user-defined projects" is no longer bold, because it is now a link. My view is that having only one of these in bold does not add value when scanning the section.
